---
title: "Network 01"
date: 2018-08-12
draft: false
tags:
  - linux

---

## MAC

+ Media access control (MAC) addresses are identifiers uniquely assigned to network interfaces.
+ first 3 octets refer to the Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI) which can help identify manufacturers

## IP

+ IP addresses are means of identifying devices connected to a network under Internet Protocol. 
+ In IPv4 we can partition a block of addresses into a subnet.
+ The number that comes after the slash (`/`) is the subnet mask.
+ This represents how many bits are in the network address, the remaining bits identify a host within the network.

## ARP

+ Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a protocol used to resolve IP addresses to MAC addresses.
+ unicast:  unicasting a frame means to send that frame to exactly one MAC address.
+ broadcast:  broadcasting a frame by sending it to the broadcast address means the frame should be sent to every device on the network.



## DNS

+ DNS is a system that maps a domain name like google.com to its IPs.
+ DNS Records
  + **A records** name = hostname, value = IP address
  + **NS records** name = domain, value = name of dns server for domain
  + **CNAME records** name = alias, value = canonical name
  + **MX records** The record used by mail service.

## TCP

+ Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) 
+ TCP is a stateful stream oriented protocol that ensures reliable transport.
+ Guarantees that information arrives wholly intact and in order at the destination.
+ TCP is a connection oriented protocol which means it must first establish a connection before sending any data.
+ A TCP connection begins with something known as the TCP handshake.
+ The TCP handshake consists of setting certain flags in the TCP header of packets exchanged between sender and receiver. 
  + Client, SYN, a packet with the SYN flag set.
  + Server, SYN-ACK, a packet with both the SYN and ACK flags set
  + Client, ACK
+ TCP then begins transmitting data and if it successfully arrives on the other end of the connection then an ACK is issued.
+ TCP also has a procedure to close connections. For a graceful termination:
  + Clinet, FIN
  + Server,  respond by sending a FIN and an ACK
    +  If Server only sends a ACK the connection persist and additional data can be sent until an FIN is sent.
  +  Once Client has received a FIN and an ACK it sends one last ACK to signal the connection termination.

## UDP

+ User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
+ UDP is stateless connectionless protocol. 
+ UDP focuses on sending messages in datagrams.
+ Being connectionless UDP also doesn’t incur the overhead of the TCP handshake and termination. 

