---
title: "Linux 02"
date: 2019-05-28
draft: true
tags:
  - linux

---

## [Using systemd](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-systemd-units-and-unit-files)

#### Introduction

+ In `systemd`, a `unit` refers to any resource that the system knows how to operate on and manage.
+ These resources are defined using configuration files called unit files.
+ Units in some ways can be said to similar to services or jobs in other init systems. 
+ The system’s copy of unit files are generally kept in the `/lib/systemd/system` directory. 
+ When software installs unit files on the system, this is the location where they are placed by default.
+ You should not edit files in this directory. Instead you should override the file, if necessary, using another unit file location which will supersede the file in this location.
+ `/etc/systemd/system` Unit files found in this directory location take precedence over any of the other locations on the filesystem. 
+ For a unit called `example.service`, a subdirectory called `example.service.d` could be created. Within this directory a file ending with `.conf` can be used to override or extend the attributes of the system’s unit file.
+ `/run/systemd/system` a location for run-time unit definitions, The `systemd` process itself uses this location for dynamically created unit files created at runtime. Unit files found in this directory have a priority landing between those in `/etc/systemd/system` and `/lib/systemd/system`.

#### Types of Units

- **`.service`**: A service unit describes how to manage a service or application on the server. This will include how to start or stop the service, under which circumstances it should be automatically started, and the dependency and ordering information for related software.
- **`.target`**: A target unit is used to provide synchronization points for other units when booting up or changing states. They also can be used to bring the system to a new state. Other units specify their relation to targets to become tied to the target’s operations.

#### Operations

+ `systemctl --type=service`
+ `systemctl start nginx`
+ `systemctl status nginx`
+ `systemctl reload nginx`
+ `systemctl restart nginx`
+ If you are having issues with the unit file, check the logs for this unit by running `journalctl -u example.service`
+ To tell systemd that the unit file has changed run `systemctl daemon-reload`





